---
prev:
   text: 'Addons - Analyzer'
   link: '/addons/analyzer'
next: 
   text: 'Advanced - Compiling'
   link: '/advanced/compiling'
---

# Creating an Addon

Do you want to extend the functionality of SkEditor? Creating an addon is a great way to do that! This guide will walk you through the process of creating your own addon for SkEditor.

::: warning
This guide assumes you have a basic understanding of C# and .NET development.
If you're new to C#, consider checking out some introductory resources first.
:::

## Prerequisites

- [.NET 8.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/8.0)
- A code editor or IDE that supports C# development (e.g., Visual Studio, Rider, or Visual Studio Code)

Creating a project in a text editor is possible, but using an IDE will make the process much easier and more efficient.

This guide will use JetBrains Rider as the IDE. The process should be similar in Visual Studio, but VS Code won't work as well.

## Creating an Addon Project

1. **Create a new project**: Open your IDE and create a new Class Library project targeting .NET 8.0. Name it whatever you want.
2. **Add SkEditor API**: Add a reference to the SkEditor API. You can do this by adding the [SkEditor NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/SkEditor/) in your project file or through the NuGet Package Manager in your IDE.

## Implementing the Addon

You should have a class with the project name generated by the IDE. This class will be your addon entry point.
First, you need to implement the `IAddon` interface from the SkEditor API. This interface requires you to implement some properties and methods.

Here's a basic example of what your addon class might look like:

```csharp
using SkEditor.API;

namespace SkEditorTestAddon;

public class TestAddon : IAddon
{
    public string Name => "TestAddon";

    public string Identifier => "TestAddon";

    public string Version => "1.0.0";

    public string? Description => "A test addon for SkEditor";

    public Version GetMinimalSkEditorVersion() => new(2, 9, 3);

    public void OnEnable()
    {
        SkEditorAPI.Windows.ShowMessage("Enabled!", "TestAddon enabled!");
    }
}
```

## Using the Addon

1. **Build the project**: After implementing your addon, build the project to generate the DLL file.
   You can right-click the project in your IDE and select `Build` or `Pack`. You can also use the command line:

    ```bash
    dotnet build -c Release
    ```

2. **Locate the DLL**: After building, locate the generated DLL file. It should be in a directory like `/bin/Release/net8.0` and be named after your project (e.g., `SkEditorTestAddon.dll`).
3. **Install the addon**: Copy the DLL file into a folder inside the SkEditor addons directory, which is located at `%appdata%/SkEditor/Addons` on Windows, `~/.config/SkEditor/Addons` on Linux and `~/Library/Application Support/SkEditor/Addons` on macOS.
   For example, you can create a folder named `TestAddon` and place the DLL inside it. You can also enable `Developer Mode` in SkEditor settings (`About` section) and then use the `Load from file` button in the `Addons` section to load your addon directly from the DLL file.
4. **Restart SkEditor**: After placing the DLL in the addons directory, restart SkEditor to load your addon. This shouldn't be necessary if you used the `Load from file` button.
5. **Enjoy!** If you have any questions or need help, feel free to ask in the SkEditor Discord server - there's a dedicated `#dev` channel where you can discuss this topic!
